#summary Allmon datamodel rnd.
#labels Phase-Requirements,Phase-Design

= Allmon datamodel rnd =

Issues:
  * No need for transactions!
  * Flexibility!
  * Partitioning?
  * Scalability?

== Scalar and Vector metrics ==

A scalar is a variable that only has magnitude, e.g. a speed of 40 km/h. Compare it with vector, a quantity comprising both magnitude and direction, e.g. a velocity of 40km/h north. Vectors allow us to look at complex, multi-dimensional problems as a simpler group of one-dimensional problems.

Both allgeneric and allmetrics support scalar and vector metrics.

== Generic data model *[DataModelRnDAllgeneric allgeneric]* ==

All data (meta-data and collected metrics, aggregates etc.) are stored in fixed generic relational schema.

  * Very easy adding new facts, dimensions and measures
  * All meta-data connected to data on relational level
  * Can cause performance problems

== Relational data model *[DataModelRnDAllmetric allmetric]* ==

  * Very similar to other data warehouse methods
  * Much better performance

= Data volumes calculations = 

== Actions ==

  * dimension
    * datatime (one month hours) - 31 `*` 24 = 744
    * action class - 2000
    * system user - 1000
  * measure
    * execution time
    
  * fact table space size: 744 `*` 2000 `*` 1000 = 1'488'000'000 ~ 1500M points
  * fact space usage - weak
    
== CPU ==

  * dimension
    * datatime (one month minutes) - 31 `*` 24 `*` 60 = 44640
    * Host - 10 hosts
    * CPU - 2 CPUs
  * measure 
    * Utilization (Types: User% Sys% Wait% Idle% Sum%)

  * whole fact table space size: 44640 `*` 10 `*` 2 `*` 5 = 4'464'000 ~ 4.5M points 
  * fact space usage - full